title: Process Magazine
----
date: 2009 May
----
tags: Conversational, Publishing, Archives, New York, Rye
----
content:
I wanted a good reason to talk to everyone again about the things that matter and to let the conversation wander into wonderfully unexpected places. So in the last week of May I put out a call on Facebook to a bunch of different artist friends for a few images and a short text, then began recording and transcribing conversations.

The idea for Process came to me while I was in the shower. I wondered, “What are my friends working on?” Facebook makes it easy for me to stay in the loop about what my friends are up to, when their birthdays are approaching, and which Jonas brother they are most like, but it makes it harder to talk about meaningful things. Because I know what you ate for dinner yesterday, we no longer need to get on the phone or—drumroll please—sit down and just talk.

I wanted a good reason to talk to everyone again about the things that matter and to let the conversation wander into wonderfully unexpected places. So in the last week of May I put out a call on Facebook to a bunch of different artist friends for a few images and a short text, then began recording and transcribing conversations. All conversations happened either in person or over the phone because I have a sneaking suspicion that when using email or IM people think way too hard about what they’re trying to say—or not at all.

The first issue of Process is based entirely around these recorded conversations. They begin and end abruptly, go off on tangents, and occasionally become incoherent. And that’s what I love about them. In each conversation, both sides are pushing and racking their brains to make sense of it all. These are the types of conversations that you wish you had written down. Now the thoughts are no longer fleeting.

This first iteration of Process has come together in magazine form but I didn’t just set out to make a magazine. My broader goal is to connect all the artists, philosophers, and creative minds I know (and soon enough the ones that I don’t yet know!), and to keep a dialogue going about what creativity means today. That means I need your help and participation!